Link - https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/what-happens-when-you-type-googlecom-press-enter-mateo-arbini-/?published=t&trackingId=szNbOwtHSdmZK7ATAWg6iQ%3D%3D

Nowadays, almost everyone has access to the internet, and through it, we access millions of websites. However, very few are those who wonder, how is it that through it, we access these sites, what processes that we do not see are happening behind so that a certain interface appears on the display. This is what I will try to explain in this blog.
To begin with, when we are looking for a web page, what we do is write a web domain in the browser's search engine. And what are domains? Well, we can understand these as translations of IP addresses (Internet Protocols). This translation is done so that it is easier for the user to remember a word than an IP address, which is a sequence of numbers that can range from 0.0.0.0 to 255.255.255.255 (for the case of www.google.com, the IP is 209.85.227.104). Continuing with the explanation, once the domain is entered, the browser will initially search the cache.
What is the cache? This is a high-speed data storage layer that stores transient data, so that future requests by the user are made more easily, if they have already been made previously. Once the cache is queried, and suppose we don't find a record with our request, the operating system will make a DNS request to the OS cache to find the IP of the page in question, in our case, google.com. In case the system does not find a record, it will resort to the third step, which is to check the router cache, in which the browser will communicate with the cache that maintains its own DNS records. Lastly, the system checks the ISP cache. This has a cache of DNS records, in which the browser will try to get the requested IP.
If the system, in any of these steps, finds the IP of the request, the browser will send a GET request using the HTTP protocol, so that the web responds with the HTML file, CSS and others. This response will also be accompanied by a status code, and these are messages that the web server sends to the browser to indicate whether the request could be completed or not. We have 5 types of status, the 1xx, which refer to Informational, the 2xx, which refer to Success, the 3xx, which refer to redirections, which means that the required page has been redirected to another place, the 4xx, which refer to client errors, where there was a browser error when asking for the page, and finally, the 5xx, which refer to server errors, and in these, the errors occur when the server sends the web page. All these steps and searching processes are carried out in a matter of milliseconds.
